# Enumerable
https://github.com/Ada-Developers-Academy/daily-curriculum/blob/master/topic_resources/enumerable.md

Enumerable builds on each. They are specializations of the each concept.

Enumerable is a "mix-in" - way of sharing methods/classes with other methods/classes

Enumerables manipulate collections of things. Available for collections... Shared functionality across similarly related concepts.  
  * each - central to all Enumerables
  * map and collect (basically identical) - does what each does, except that it returns an array of the results.
    `x = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]`
    `array = x.map do |value|
      value ** 2
    end`
    `array => [1, 4, 9, 16, 25]`
  * sort and sort_by
  * min, max, min_by, max_by
  * first(n) - (for hashes, typically used with sort or sort_by since hashes don't have implicit order)
  * group_by - returns a hash.
    example: array of student names called @students.
    * ```
    students_first_letter =
    @students_by_name.group_by { |student| student[0] }
    ```
    => hash of names organized by first letter
    * see Alice's code (emailed)
  * find & detect (aliases - do the same thing). Returns first member of collection where evaluation is true. Less useful with hashes because they aren't ordered.
  * find_all & select (aliases) - more useful with hashes. Gives all where evaluation is true

These methods don't change the value of the source, they return a new object that is typically a subset of the original. They typically return arrays.

# Ways to organize your code
## Class - bucket of code surrounding a similar purpose that does some things, i.e., can be instantiated

## Modules - bucket of code  you group together to keep naming organized
* Namespacing = act of creating namespaces.

* Namespace - identifier for group of code. Used to isolate things by name.
* Naming things is hard and may result in duplication and confusion. Could totally screw up your code.

* if you create a module (FarMar in our project starting tomorrow), this creates a namespace in which you are using particular labels so ruby doesn't confuse similar/same names.

* organize methods into classes and classes into Modules
example:

```module FarMar
  class Sale
    def initialization... etc
    end
  end
end```

```x = FarMar::Sale.new```

* like classes, they are in camelcase

* super is a keyword used to say "supercede the meaning of this"

* use extend to pass module info in, e.g.:
`jeremyArray.extend(ArraysForJeremy)`
ArraysForJeremy is a module. ONly the specified object (jeremyArray) is extended. Applies to object after this line of code. If you replace the existing object with a new one, it will no longer apply.

* require makes ruby aware of gem, gem is calling extend under the hood.

* ruby will show you what extensions have been added through:
  `x.singleton_methods`
  (shows nicely if you use awesome_print)

* prevents naming collisions

* Jeremy's rule: if I have 2 classes, I create a module.

* See harrypotter.rb example!!!
  * You cannot instantiate a module. You can instantiate a class.

* Modules are just containers to keep like code together.


## Class Methods - Revisiting classes.
*Classes are REALLY IMPORTANT!*

#Constructor (initialize, "new up", "spin up")

#Instance Methods (identified with a snake_case_name). Only available on instances of a class.

@ means "this instance"

see https://github.com/Ada-Developers-Academy/daily-curriculum/blob/master/topic_resources/revisiting_classes.md

#Attributes (e.g., instance variables)

class Coordinate
  attr_accessor :x  # does the exact same as

  def x
    @x
  end

  def
    x=(new_x)
  end


## Class Methods
* called by the class, not an instance of the class

example of calling a class method:
`Product.all.map {|p| P ** 2}`

start with `def self.make_row`

see chess example
  * calling new within a class method creates an instance of that method.
  * new is a method. Within the class Pawn, this is equivalent to Pawn.new. (You could actually use new or Pawn.new)
  * collect creates an array consisting of Pawns with their position

useful when you don't want to act on an instance of the class but on the class itself

# Inheritance
class Fish  # base class
  attr_accessor :fins, :gills, :scales, :distance

  def is_a_fish?
    true
  end

  def swim
    @distance += 1
  end
end

class Halibut<Fish # subclass; inherits attributes/methods from Fish
  xxx
end

tom = Halibut.new(xxx)
tom.is_a_fish? = true

class ClownFish<Fish # subclass; inherits attributes/methods from Fish
  xxx
end

nemo = ClownFish.new(xxx)
nemo.swim # works b/c of Inheritance.
      # OR could re-assign to a new value. More local attributes/methods
      # override the base class. Referred to as "overloading" the
      # method/attribute

# if you write an initialize method in the base class & DO NOT write on in the subclass, the subclass will inherit. If you write an initialize method in the base class AND in the subclass, the subclass initialize will override the ENTIRE initialize method from the base class.

sidenote: initialize is just a method with one special bhvr: it runs automatically.


Another side example: Say you do this:
class ClownFish<Fish

  def initialize
    super()       # when you have a subclass overriding part of a base class
                  # but you want it to keep everything else in the base class,
                  # use super. So, like saying do the base initializer, then
                  # continue here. Executes the entire super method here.
                  # Must pass parameters if any are req'd by the base method.
    @gills = false # this overrides just this part of initialize.
  end

# attr_accessor is additive in inheritance. So, if you add a new object to attr_accessor in your subclass, it will inherit unspecified objects from base, add new objects to these, and override any re-specified.
