# Intro to recursion
See https://github.com/Ada-Developers-Academy/daily-curriculum/blob/master/topic_resources/recursion.md

## Ruby Idioms

### 1. Can add conditional at the end when there is an if/unless with no elses. Does not need an `end`. Great for guard clauses and base cases. Example:
`return "Cannot calculate factorial of a negative number." if num < 0 `

### 2. Implicit returns

### 3. do || with arrays.
When you have an array and you use a do ||, you can slide each item in the array into the pipes in order
```
[
  ["I", 1]
  ["II", 2]
].each do |roman, arabic|   # array index 0 goes in roman, 1 in arabic.
  #more here
end
```

### 4. Can do 3. in other places too. Assigning multiple indices in array simultaneously

## Algorithms
formula/definition/map of how to get from input A to output B. Almost all we do can be described with algorithms.


## Recursion - is a kind of algorithm
Process in which solution depends on solutions to smaller instances of same problem.

A method is recursive if:
- Method calls itself.
- Has an end goal that ends the recursion (called the base case)
- Has a process that reduces/alters task so we progress toward the goal.

Example: factorials.
 - Each recursion adds to the stack. On the second call, the stack is 2 deep. On 3rd call, stack is 3 deep, etc.
 - factorial of 1 is our base case
 - Things get put on the stack when method is called. Taken off stack when they can be eval'ed w/o add'l method calls.
 - This methods adds to stack until you get to 1, then the method can execute.

 ```
 def factorial(num = 0)
  # this is a guard clause
  return "Can not calculate factorial of a negative number" if num < 0

  if num <= 1
    1 # this is our base case
  else
    num * factorial(num - 1) # this is where the recursion happens
  end
end
 ```

### Could write iteration instead of recursion. When to do what?
Write both and do Benchmarking.

- Often NOT better than a loop, but sometimes is.

### fibonnacci example

#### The Stack:
fib(4) # => 3
      fib(3)  + fib(2)# =>
        |           |
       /             \
 fib(2) + fib(1)    fib(1) + fib(0)   # Double recursive!
    /
fib(1) + fib(0)

etc.
Expands exponentially.


base case - fib(1)



## Call Stack - data structure that keeps track of running routines

## Memoization - storing result of expensive operation to avoid recomputing it.
see fibonnacci.rb

## Benchmarking - gathering metrics on code (e.g., time, memory, object count)
require 'benchmark'

Typically, will run *many* times, get means, etc. Control for third variables. Performance engineering. Big data folks do this a lot. Fun!

## Guard Clause - statement or block (often conditional) that guards against edge case.

## TDD example - live code roman numeral converter. See roman_num.rb
`rspec -fd`  # returns formatted spec info that includes more detail. -f for format, d for docs

How often to `describe`?
 - by class is a useful rule of thumb for now. Driven by user input...
